Alexandre Cabanel was born in the city of Montpellier in southern France on September 28, 1823 in the family of a carpenter.
From a young age, the boy became interested in drawing and at the age of thirteen he was accepted to study at the local school of fine arts,
where the portrait painter Charles Mate became his teacher. After 4 years, Alexander received the right to receive a scholarship and immediately went to Paris.
In the capital, the future master of painting without any problems entered the Higher School of Fine Arts for the course of the master of the historical genre Francois Edouard Picot.
Three times Alexander Cabanel participated in the competition for the Grand Prize, but only with
The third attempt was successful. The jury named his painting “The Mocking of Christ” as the winner of the award, after which the artist left for Italy to continue
studying at the French Academy in Rome. Cabanel lived in the Italian capital for the next 5 years, honing his own skills and studying the work of the great masters of painting of the past.
During this time, he created about 20 paintings of the religious and portrait genres and developed his own style of writing.
Returning to Paris, in 1852, Alexander Cabanel took part in the Salon for the first time, where his painting "The Death of Moses" was enthusiastically received by both critics and the public.
For this work, the artist received a well-deserved medal, which was the first of numerous awards in the master's biography.
At this time, the era of the Second Empire began in France, Louis Napoleon Bonaparte ascended the throne, who became the patron of the young painter for many years.
The Emperor frequently bought Cabanel's paintings, including the master's most famous work, The Birth of Venus, in 1863.
For many years, Cabanel remained a fierce supporter of academic painting. He passionately defended his views in disputes with adherents
realism and impressionism, spoke negatively about any innovative undertakings in the visual arts. Fall of the Second Empire and establishment
The Third Republic in France in 1870 had no effect on the life of the artist. He, as before, had great authority in society and was inundated with orders
until the end of life. Being at the zenith of fame and being a very wealthy man, Alexander Cabanel died on January 23, 1889 in Paris at the age of 65. After the lush
farewell ceremony, the body of the master was transported to his homeland - in Montpellier, where he was interred. After 3 years, a monument to the work was erected on the grave of the painter
architect Jean Camille Formiger, as well as sculptors Paul Dubois and Antonin Mercier.