Francisco Goya (full name sounds like Francisco José de Goya y Lucientes) was born on March 30, 1746. My father kept a small workshop.
The mother of the future artist was of noble origin. Francisco Goya began to study painting at the age of 13. At this time, the family moved to Zaragoza.
The first teacher of the future famous artist was Jose Lusan. Goya will spend seven years in his workshop.
Lusan recommended to enter the San Fernando Academy in Madrid. At the end of 1763, Goya decides to participate in the competition,
he was asked to mold a copy of Silenus from plaster. The voting results were not encouraging: not a single member of the jury approved the work.
In 1766, Goya again came to Madrid, trying to enter the Academy of San Fernando. And again, we have to endure a deafening failure.
The reason is that the plots proposed for the competition entries did not inspire the young artist. Academic drawing has never been Goya's forte.
Without enrolling in the Madrid Academy, 23-year-old Francisco went to conquer Italy. First of all, once in Rome, the artist fulfilled his dream - he climbed
dome of St. Peter's Basilica. He did this not in order to paint a masterpiece landscape. In the center of the dome, the frondeur and varmint Goya scrawled his initials.
In Italy, the painter received the first official recognition - he is awarded the Parma Academy Prize. The return to Zaragoza took place in 1771.
Here he is waiting for a lot of orders, Goya enthusiastically gets to work. It is impossible to tear your eyes away from its bright colors. In 1773 Francisco Bayeu
introduces his sister Josefa to the artist. Goya falls in love, a passionate romance begins, ending in a wedding.
In 1775 he moved to Madrid, working under the direction of his relative from his wife, Francisco Bayeu, who was a court painter.
Goya's career quickly went up. In 1786 he was officially granted the title of royal painter. At 46, the painter suddenly falls ill.
He managed to recover, but he still couldn't restore his hearing. He learned to read lips, if necessary, he asked me to write notes.
This could not but be reflected in his work - his characteristic cheerfulness is leaving, it is replaced by misanthropy. Creates a famous series of etchings,
known as "Caprichos".
Goya also had late love. In 1823 he met a married lady named Leocadia de Weiss. Soon she divorces her husband and gives birth to
artist's daughter, who was named Rosarita.
In Spain, the government is changing, Goya is afraid of falling into disgrace, so he moves to France with his new family, settles in Bordeaux.
The artist lived a long and bright life, he died on April 16, 1828 in France.