Leonardo da Vinci was born on April 15, 1452 on the outskirts of the town of Vinci, near Florence. He was the out-of-wedlock son of the notary Piero Vinci and a simple
peasant woman Katerina. The first 3 years of life the child lived with his mother, and then the father took the baby to him and took up the upbringing of the firstborn on his own.
The father's attempts to attract his son to the notarial profession were unsuccessful. Leonardo was absolutely not interested in the subtleties of jurisprudence, on the contrary, the boy had an early
showed talent for the arts.
In 1466, a 14-year-old teenager became the apprentice of the famous Florentine artist Andrea del Verocchio. Leonardo eagerly absorbed knowledge not only
in the main specialty, but also conscientiously studied the natural sciences. 7 years of study were not in vain, already in 1473 the young painter was assigned
Master of Arts qualification. While still studying, Leonardo gained his first practical experience as an artist. The teacher instructed him to write one of the angels
for the painting "The Baptism of Christ". The student brilliantly coped with the difficult task and demonstrated remarkable talent as a painter.
In 1476, Leonardo da Vinci opened a personal art workshop in Florence and a couple of years later created his first masterpiece - the Benois Madonna painting.
On the denunciation of ill-wishers, the painter is accused of bestiality, but the trial ends with an acquittal. In the future, da Vinci will
carefully protect your personal life from strangers. This will be the subject of much gay speculation that will remain
unconfirmed rumors. Unlike most other painters, Leonardo da Vinci was fond of not only art, but also the exact sciences. His talent
mechanics and pyrotechnics was noticed by the ruler of Milan, Duke Lodovico Moro, and the young man received an invitation to take the post of military engineer.
The master also conscientiously performed the duties of the organizer of court holidays and enthusiastically worked on the idea of ​​planning an ideal city of the future.
In 1499, da Vinci left for Florence and entered the service of Duke Cesare Borgia. It was here that the master created his main masterpiece - "La Gioconda",
although he spent most of his strength on the development of fortifications and combat vehicles.
The writing of "Mona Lisa" was the pinnacle of creativity of the great artist. Having known the glory, da Vinci is gradually moving away from painting. Many of his later works
remained unfinished with the exception of John the Baptist. In 1506 da Vinci returned to Milan, which was then under the control of the King of France.
Louis XII and entered the service of the monarch. In 1512 he moved to Rome at the invitation of Pope Leo X, and in 1516 he retired to France, to the city of Amboise,
where he lived in a luxurious castle of the French autocrat.
A few years before his death, the elderly genius had a stroke and could not move on his own. On May 2, 1519, Leonardo da Vinci, exhausted by illnesses
died in the circle of close followers, his grave is now inside the Amboise castle complex.