Michelangelo di Lodovico di Leonardo di Buonarroti Simoni was born on Monday, March 6, 1475 in the small town of Caprese near Florence.
He was the second child in the family of a hereditary banker of aristocratic origin, Lodovico Buonarroti. The boy's mother died when he was barely
6 years old and the father married a second time, and gave his son to be raised by a village couple Topolino. The young genius early learned to handle clay and showed
remarkable ability to art.
In 1488, his father sent Michelangelo to study with the Florentine artist Domenico Ghirlandaio, who taught the boy the basics of painting.
But the teenager was more interested in sculpture, so a year later he moved to the Bertoldo di Giovanni school, which he patronized
mighty Lorenzo de' Medici. The all-powerful owner of Florence instantly saw the talent of the boy and took him under his personal protection.
But in 1492 Lorenzo died, and Michelangelo was forced to return home to his father.
1495 became a landmark in the life of the artist. He received the first major order for the manufacture of sculptural compositions for the ark of the relics of St.
Dominica in Bologna and gained fame throughout Italy. In 1496, Michelangelo, at the invitation of Cardinal Rafael Riario, moved to Rome and lived there for 5 years,
creating numerous sculptures for the papal throne and city temples.
Throughout his life, Michelangelo often moved from Florence to Rome and back. He was invited to the capital by the head of the Catholic Church and made bulk orders.
In total, the artist had to collaborate with nine popes, each of whom highly appreciated the genius.
Michelangelo also made a significant contribution to world literature. He left to the descendants more than 300 sonnets on love-philosophical themes. Almost all of their
the master devoted poems to the poetess Vittoria Colonna, with whom he was friends for about 40 years. But their relationship was purely platonic,
Michelangelo never married and carefully concealed his personal life from outsiders.
From the mid-1540s, the artist received a large number of architectural commissions. Among the famous works of the master are the creation of the palace facade
Palazzo Farnese and the new decoration of the Roman Capitol. But the worldwide fame of the genius was brought by his main architectural creation - St. Peter's Cathedral.
It was Michelangelo who came up with the main idea of ​​the project of the famous central dome structure. In total, he supervised the architectural work in
the main Catholic church of the world is 18 years old, and the construction of the cathedral was completed after the death of a genius at the beginning of the 17th century.
Michelangelo died on February 18, 1564 at the age of 88. After the death of the master, Pope Pius IV gave the order to build a luxurious tomb for him.
in St. Peter's Basilica, but these plans were not destined to come true. The body of the genius after 5 months was transported to Florence and buried with great honor in the basilica
Santa Croce, next to the remains of another great Italian, Niccolò Machiavelli.s